JUDY WOODRUFF: The Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence
met behind closed doors this
week with three key
figures in their expanding
Russia investigation,
National Security Director
Mike Rogers, the director
of national intelligence,
Dan Coats, and special
counsel Robert Mueller.
And with us now, the committee's
top Democrat, its vice chairman,
Virginia Senator Mark Warner.
Senator, first off, you
-- we have been hearing,
been discussing with
NPR's Carrie Johnson
the fact that the special
counsel has expanded his
investigation to include
potential obstruction
of justice.
Is that something your
committee is doing as well?
ÑMD-BOÑSEN.
MARK WARNER (D), Virginia:
Well, Judy, I'm not
going to comment on
the expanse of special
counselor Mueller's
investigation.
I do think it's an indication
of how serious it is that he
is obviously recruiting some
of the top talent from
around the country to
assist him in this effort.
It shows how seriously
he's taking this effort,
and, frankly, how
seriously the vast majority
of elected officials, Democrats
and Republicans, who realize
that the Russian intervention
was massive in our elections.
We have got to get
to the bottom of it.
We have got to make sure
it doesn't happen again.
It really appears that
the only elected official
maybe in Washington
that doesn't accept the
potential dangerousness of
the Russian intervention
is actually the president
of the United States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, that's
what I wanted to ask you about.
The president has been
actively tweeting today.
Among other things, he said
they went after a -- he said
they made up a phony collusion
with the Russians story,
they found zero proof,
and now, he said, they're
going after obstruction
of justice because
they found nothing.
SEN.
MARK WARNER: That's, you know,
just factually not appropriate.
You know, we are still early on
into particularly some of the
individuals that were affiliated
with the Trump campaign and
their potential contacts or
communications with Russians.
We thought we would be further
along, but for the fact that the
president, in an unprecedented
way, fired the FBI
director, Jim Comey.
We have had obviously a pattern
here where there are at least
reports of other individuals
that were at least
contacted by the president.
I'm not going to comment
on the specifics of
the individuals we saw.
And that's -- we need
to keep confidential.
But we do have the
former National Security
Adviser General Flynn
who was fired because
he didn't come forward with
his contacts with the Russians.
We have had the attorney general
recuse himself because he didn't
fully disclose his contacts
with the Russians.
If the president's rendition
is true, you know, that there's
no there there, why wouldn't
he collaborate with
the investigation to
get this cleared up, as
opposed to his constant
tweetage saying that this is
a witch-hunt and fake news?
I don't think there's any member
of the Senate that believes this
is fake news that the Russians
interfered, just as they
interfered in France,
just as they will
probably interfere in the
German elections coming
up later this year.
And it's a national
security threat.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, while we're
talking about the question of
whether there is obstruction
or not, I know your committee
met this week, as we have
just reported, with Dan Coats,
the director of national
intelligence, and
also with the National
Security Agency director,
Mike Rogers, in both cases,
presumably asking questions
that they wouldn't -- they were
not willing the answer
in open session.
Were they able to shed any
more light on this question of
whether they -- go ahead, yes.
(CROSSTALK)
SEN.
MARK WARNER: I'm not going
to get into the content
of their testimony.
I will say that it's very
important that sources
and methods in terms
of how we discovered
Russian intervention, that that
is maintained and preserved,
and there's an appropriate
classified portion.
I do think there are questions
that still need to be
explored about, if a president
was calling on these subjects,
how much of that is classified.
I'm not going to comment again
on any specifics, but these are
all -- and what I worry about
is, is there a pattern emerging?
And that's something, again,
that time will tell and,
obviously, the special counsel,
Mueller, will
continue to look into.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You met
with the special counsel,
as we said, yesterday,
you and Chairman Richard
Burr.
Can you explain for us
the difference between
the mission of what you're
doing, your committee,
and the House Intelligence
Committee, vs. what
Mr. Mueller is doing?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Sure.
Well, special counsel Mueller
has got a criminal standard.
In many cases, that criminal
standard is quite high.
He will have to -- if he
chooses to bring charges against
anyone, they will have to
meet those legal standards.
We're leading a
counterintelligence
investigation that
started with looking
at Russian interference
in our election, was broadened
to include any potential
communication or collaboration
between officials in part of
either campaign, and the focus
is generally on folks affiliated
with the Trump campaign,
and the Russians.
We have actually not
had a chance to get to
many of the witnesses
that have been at least
bandied about because, again,
this -- we have been superseded
in a way by the firing of
Director Comey, then President
Trump disparages Director Comey
in front of the Russians, saying
on national television that he
fired him because of the Russia
investigation, all things that,
at least for this senator, raise
a lot of questions that I'm
still trying to sort through.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, no concern
you're going to get in each
other's way, that what your
committee...
(CROSSTALK)
SEN.
MARK WARNER: I think
that's something that we
have to make sure there's
appropriate deconfliction.
At the end of the day, you know,
the criminal investigation, we
can't do anything that would
interfere with that
criminal investigation.
And, you know, I'm not
going to, again, comment
about our conversations
with special counsel
Mueller, but I think it was
a good first step, and I
think we will have to have
ongoing communications.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just one
final quick question.
Vice President Mike Pence, it
was announced today, has hired
his own private counsel to
address any issues arising out
of the Russia investigation.
Do you have a comment on that?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: No, I don't have
a comment, but I just -- other
than the fact that it would
be helpful if the administration
actually collaborated and
cooperated with all of us.
What the Russians did in 2016
in the United States, the
Russians have also done in the
French elections, they will
do in the German elections.
And, as a state that
has statewide elections
this year, I'm concerned
about their ongoing
efforts to try to, frankly, sow
chaos in our democratic process.
And let me be clear.
This is not about
relitigating 2016.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SEN.
MARK WARNER: It's not about
the Russians being for
Republicans or Democrats.
The Russians are for
their own interests.
And we have to be careful about
this new form of conflict.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But just
very quickly, Senator,
so I understand, you're
saying the administration
is not collaborating
right now with you?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: I wish there
was closer cooperation.
There are a number of members
of the administration who
volunteered to come forward.
There are a number of
individuals that work
on the Trump campaign.
But I don't see what
value is added by the
president's constant
dismissal of the seriousness
of this threat.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Mark
Warner, the vice chairman of
the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence, we thank you.
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Thank you, Judy.